Let's bring out, we don't have a spender, but don't think of it as losing a spender.
Think of it as gaining a Brandon Johnson, everybody.
What up Brandon? Thank you so much for having me tonight, Jeff Davis. You looking good. You looking great. Thank you.
Why don't we bring out the mayor of Harmontown? Dan Harmon.
I had one note. I got mad because I'm recreationally house hunting.
This will be a sympathetic bit. People will love this.
I'm just looking around for houses and I don't like it.
I just went to a house and they're like, hey, welcome to the open house and like you can either take off your shoes or you can put on these special surgical shoes like you're Mark Wahlberg about to shoot like somebody in the department.
I'm never buying your house. Fuck you. Take off my shoes. Is it a house or not? A house is a giant shoe. A house is a shoe for your life.
If you buy the house, you get to decide who wears a shoe and who doesn't wear the shoe.
Yeah, but this is bad mojo. How much sage can you burn to get rid of the fucking foot of phobe that lives there?
Do you want to buy a house where they didn't give a fuck about people with their gross feet all over the place?
In a word? Yeah. I guess I don't want that mojo.
That to me says that welcome to the house. Maybe you'd like to buy it. Take off your shoes or put on special booties.
That to me says we hit all the bodies in the attic. There's just extra special attention put into dishonesty.
Look, we're not getting off on the right foot.
No, no, no. You are because I'm going to tell you if I come to your house and I'm trying to, you know, let's say you have a used Bentley, right? And it's $150,000. You pay $200,000 for it, right?
If I want to sit in that motherfucker with some mud on my feet, I'm about to spend $150,000.
Right.
So if you're about to buy a house, yeah, you might want to walk up in that. You might say, I don't even know if this shit's comfortable unless I got mud on my feet.
Right. I think you're picking up what I'm laying down.
Yeah.
If I'm buying some shit, I should be able to use it as I would use it.
Yeah. You want me to live in this shit or you want me to, or you want it to be less dirty for the next person that might live in it.
Fuck you.
I made a mud. I'm going to live in your house.
Fucking Dan Harmon.
Never asked me to take my shoes off. It's going to make your house more dirty, by the way.
You think my shoes are fucked up? You should see my socks.
You know what? You deserve it. There comes my shoes off.
All right. Anyways, let's get things on a more, you know, I want to win the audience.
You know, I want to win the audience back. I feel bad for Liam Neeson.
That's a great way to win the audience back.
What are you? My jokes agent?
Yes.
I get 10% of your laughter.
If you represent the joke, you're like making calls. Listen, there's a joke over here.
What was his angle? What was he trying to do? He was coming clean about the fact that he went...
Black bastard.
He was... I think... Part of me is like, I won't click on any of this shit because it feels...
It's like my general sort of like, the internet's awful and all this stuff.
But as far as... But I also don't think it's one of those stories where like, ooh, you got to do your research.
I believe that he was probably doing an interview.
I think he kind of like... I've done a lot of interviews and when you're on a roll,
maybe you've taken an extra milligram of Adderall and maybe you're at Comic-Con
and you're like, someone's like pumping you up and being like, yeah, but seriously, why is Rick and Morty so genius?
And you're like, this person, I can't do no wrong. Like, I want to try to explain myself.
And like, I think he probably... He sidled into a confession about how crazy he was 40 years ago.
40 years ago, and this is all of our mistake, is twice the median age of the people that control the planet.
So none of them are ever going to go, oh, well, I get it.
This is my realization. This is both my terror and my resignation.
It's like, if you lived your life on the internet as I have, you are now...
You have laid down a paper trail, like a landscape of you being a terrible person from the age of zero to 46.
Now, today's 10-year-old who's born on the internet, and I say this out of sympathy to today's children,
because they have to have 35 Instagram accounts so that their parents can't watch them go through puberty.
I can't imagine what it's like to be 20 today.
But also, the problem is they're 20 and they're going like, what? 40 years ago, you were racist.
That's crazy. But everything 40 years ago was crazy to you. You weren't born.
He's telling a story about how fucked up he was so long ago.
Look, Dan Harmon goes to bat for Liam Neeson. Fuck off.
I want us to stop destroying each other. I want the cloud that we're becoming.
I don't think any individual is becoming a worse person because of the internet.
How does Liam Neeson know to not tell that story? If that happened...
That's the biggest tragedy of all. The answer is because he felt comfortable and he wanted to confess.
What do you want to confess, Dan?
That would be great, wouldn't it?
I'm supposed to stand here and say, from now on, forget it.
Every night, I go to bed and I'm like, what am I doing this for?
Up and down, the answer is to keep a gun out of my mouth because if I don't talk my mind into a microphone,
it bounces around inside my skull and it's going to get worse and worse and worse.
Am I doing this for me? Am I doing this for other people? I don't even know anymore.
I know that the day I quit, I can't quit tomorrow because it'll be Dan Harmon quits podcast
and dust up over Liam Neeson's story.
I have to now wait until it's gas prices.
Now we have one more year of me and these ads.
I'm still waiting until it's...
Look, man, I don't think that there's anything that any individual can do
because I think that every individual is actually a good person.
The thing that I'm going through right now, I tell my therapist all the time, I'm like, I hate everyone
except for anyone I meet.
I hate, but none of us are meeting each other.
I hate what we've become. I hate the cloud.
I hate this collective behavior.
I said it before when the weatherman was...
He accidentally said the wrong word and stuff like that.
I express the sentiment of out of sympathy for actually the people that get outraged,
all of whom I believe I give them credit as an American.
I bet they don't want the power over whether someone gets fired.
If you and I are on a smoke break out in the sidewalk, what we want to do is talk shit about Liam Neeson.
We want to like...
And we don't want a fucking drone to monitor what we say and then take it to his publicist and affect his career.
We want to be able to, with all of our primate hearts, go like, that was fucked up.
I didn't like that. I don't like what he said.
That's the thing about this.
We want to be able to wake up the next day and go, yeah, I was talking a lot of shit.
I don't know what the fuck I'm talking about. I need to read about it.
That's true. That's a human trait.
If you level the playing field, though, you can get away with whatever you want.
What do you mean?
I mean, what makes it difficult is that he spoke about a group of people who were disenfranchised.
But if you lift all the boats with the old tide, then you can talk shit about every boat.
I still don't know what you mean.
I know.
I'm not supposed to. I want to know.
Literally, it's like, I love a good black joke if it's super funny because the super funny has lifted the tide
because you are a craftsman who has made a wonderful joke, even at my own expense.
Something that I love to laugh at myself, right?
That's when we're cool.
We're not cool if I'm broke as fuck and you're pointing at me as you make the joke.
So what we want is a world where I can talk shit about women and Jews and gays
because women and Jews and gays are doing so fucking well that even they're like,
I am a little weird.
Right, but how does that sound?
I mean, when Mr. Neeson was making this confession, he was saying like 40 years ago,
Bastards.
He so didn't want, it was that phrase for sure.
It was alliterative and it was like clickable and it was like...
I wish you would say my name with Bastard behind it to my face.
Now, if you say black in front of that, you kind of say my name
because I like to go with Black Brandon some days.
Black Brandon.
Oh, Black Brandon.
I'm a pirate.
But that's the issue.
The issue is, whoa, Black Brandon.
I'm a brand new suit on Black and Brandon.
But that's the game.
The game is, if you lift everybody up, you can do whatever fuck you want.
Joke should always be funny.
If you're going to tell a racial joke, the only rule is it has to be,
you can't lower the status of the target.
If it's funny that the person's black or Jewish or a woman or whatever
and they still win, that's a funny joke.
We're using the joke thing as a template because what we understand is jokes
and we know that he wasn't making a joke, right?
It was Bastard.
It does apply like a rubbing from joke to confession
because in his confession, he didn't lift up while he kind of confessed
that he was dehumanizing.
For instance, there's a joke I made on TV once that was aired
and it was a funny joke at the time.
If I could go back in time, I would erase that from memory
because it was not a joke.
Oh, you have one of those? Aren't you adorable?
No, I mean, I'm thinking of one in particular.
And it was funny at the time.
If I told that joke today, I think it would be horrible.
And also, I'm sad that I said it once a long time ago.
And could we all retract a thousand things that we said?
Absolutely.
I think that's how everybody...
I mean, maybe I'm unique in that I've kind of aerosoled myself from the age of 23
going, look at me, look at me, look at me, every shit I take, every thought I think.
Every breath you take?
Every move you make?
And all darkness and all of the time and all what I could get away with at the time.
It's so much misogyny, so much racism, so much unfashionable thought
in a world where it's moving so quickly.
I am absolutely biased.
I have an agenda when I call for forgiveness.
We've lost our shame on the Internet, which is a good thing,
because so much shame needed to be lost.
It was being used to hold so many people back.
But we've also lost our grace, maybe?
We've lost our forgiveness.
I mean, we are just recreationally and collectively hurting each other.
There's no call to action because I don't think you or you or you or you or you
or you or any individual, I don't think anyone's actually becoming a bad person.
I think that we're evolving into a collective organism that is doing some terrible things to the individual.
If we've all chosen a life where we all want everyone to hear us,
they have to hear us be our worst at all times too.
And then we have to learn to shut up.
Like, we're asking for followers and we're happy every time we get more followers,
but we're bummed out every time everybody heard us fart or burp or say something
that we should have thought twice before we said.
Real clear, it's not the 40 years ago that he was racist.
It was the current day he was a bastard.
So one of the things in all speeches, we don't mind if you say black hero, black big dick,
don't say black bad parent, don't say black bad bot.
Don't do that.
So with him, had he not said bastard, he just said black dudes would have been on his side.
That's getting really specific because maybe you, did you see the super specific like the way he,
because I'm imagining it again, I'm refusing to click and yet I'm going like,
everyone let's just love each other.
But he surely was characterizing himself as an unreliable narrator.
No, he wasn't saying that word.
You're saying just like, come on, if you don't know how to navigate those waters in general.
Yeah, because you say Adderall, Comic-Con.
I would say too many interviews, tired, telling stories, getting too casual.
And he was just like, after my friend got raped, I went out and I wanted to kill the first black bastard that I saw.
And I went looking for one.
Is the problem.
The problem is that something happened to someone you knew and it caused you to be predatory.
When the reality is, if that were true, I'd clean this theater out.
Except for gray.
That's really interesting.
Like you thought that you think like he let down.
That's what I think happened.
His garden was like almost humble bragging about it.
Like he was asked how he got into character.
Interesting.
Really interesting.
I want to tell you one thing.
We're going to bring our guest out.
He's been waiting too long.
Ladies and gentlemen, Liam Neeson.
You do a good Liam Neeson impression.
Do you want to apologize for Liam Neeson?
No, we're not doing that joke.
It won't help anybody.
That joke is obvious.
I get it.
They're biological killing machines.
We're not connecting those dots.
But you just did it.
I'm going to tell you in advance until the end of my career,
which is obviously going to be shortly,
given that it goes back to shit that you've already done.
I'm going to continue to, with absolutely no mistake,
that I'm in the kind of like, that it's not the way to win a popularity contest.
Like I'm going to go with my heart and I'm going to continue to side with the person,
the individual who is currently at that point walking the plank.
I don't care how bad.
I figure if they're out on the plank,
I just want to feel bad for them.
I don't care what they've done.
I think that may be a lot of projection on my part when I'm just like,
I spent so much time.
I just feel like I've always been that guy.
And I didn't get this far to like, I don't want to like poke people off of that plank.
If they're walking it for a reason, then they're walking off of it.
But anyways, I wanted to say one thing to you.
Sure.
You.
Before we bring our guest out, because I was like,
Spencer dropped out.
So sorry, God loves Spencer.
I was I was I was thinking about the Liam Neeson thing was putting on my me undies,
which are three times softer than cotton.
And I was having this like internal monologue in my head.
I started thinking about the Michael Richards thing.
And the the weird turning point in the Michael Richards thing for me,
and I swear I'm not being hyperbolic about the personalization of this.
I remember distinctly because this podcast is so goddamn old.
I remember carrying the Michael Richards thing into Harmontown at Melt Town.
And I remember talking to you and DeMorge about it,
like talking about it in the green room.
And both of you guys, like my epiphany was like because I was coming and going,
can you fucking believe this?
And the two of you basically going like, yeah.
In a way that was like, yeah, that's the world we live in.
And it flipped my magnetic poles because I was like, that's important.
That's why I bring this shit up too.
Because I'm like, what is your hot take?
Do you remember clicking on this Liam Neeson thing and like help me parse it?
Because as a middle-aged white guy, I'm going to be like,
they're trying to take our rights away.
I mean, last real quick thing is that remember that he kisses Viola Davis
so hard in that movie recently.
I can't remember what the name of it is.
And there is this thing that black celebrities are saying, which is,
he can't be racist because he is very intimate with Viola Davis in this movie.
So I do think that that was way back in the day and that he does work on himself
and that he probably isn't racist.
It's just he doesn't know how to tell a story to the press.
Okay, one more thing and then we'll bring our guest out.
Sure.
Racism, it's a fucking, it's not a blood type.
It's a phenomenon, right?
It's not that phenomenon.
It's like influenza.
You can't eradicate it by finding people with it and burning them.
You maybe can state a purpose.
You can state a mission statement.
I'm against influenza.
Your nose is so running, I'm going to kill you.
But if you genuinely are against the principle,
you should accept that it's fucking everywhere.
Just rise the boats.
If we all do that part, then we don't have to worry about it.
There's shit we need to do to prepare for it, to deal with it.
No, you just got to rise the boats.
Just rise the boats.
I mean, I like this.
Racism is a spectrum.
It's a sociological phenomenon.
It happens because it'll happen until the day race stops.
You're severely underestimating the people that it affects.
But let's bring out that guest.
Okay, let's bring out our guest and get deeper
and either more or less podcast worthy, I don't know.
He's our new friend.
He's soaring up the charts.
He's currently resided in Portland,
but if ICE has it their way,
he won't be in Portland for much longer.
Please welcome Mohanad Elshiki.
What's up Mohanad?
Is your mic working?
Yeah, it is working.
We're good.
Alright, you're from Libya, Benghazi,
which until I researched you this morning,
I thought Benghazi was like a made up word
we used to hate Hillary Clinton.
I wish it was.
It's actually a city in Libya.
It is a city in Libya.
It's where I lived.
It's sometimes filled made up.
I want to start there.
You're like the immigration equivalent of,
I'm starstruck because I don't think I've ever known someone
that had asylum.
For all the talk we do about asylum.
And I want to talk so much about that.
So tracing it from,
but first I just want to picture
because you're growing up
in part of a gigantic blind spot for me.
Childhood in Libya,
you can be comedic, tragic, sad, whatever.
Honestly, this is a funny question you're asking
because a lot of people,
when they imagine my child in Libya,
they always go to some war zone.
I'm afraid to tell you what I would picture,
but you can imagine.
I'll tell you the picture.
The picture is like me being a child soldier.
I'm going to defend my mom.
It's like those backgrounds where the road
is the same color as the building.
Exactly.
You can't tell.
My childhood was very chill.
What did the neighborhood look like?
If it didn't look like that,
my first world xenophobic images,
does it look like
the Munsters neighborhood?
It looks like the Cleavers.
I don't know what reference to drive.
Honestly, I look around the land.
There's some houses that we had that looked the same.
The structure was more like...
It was kind of different
because the houses were...
We don't have houses built...
I don't know how to describe it.
The material here that people use,
it's more like cement.
This is how I would describe it.
When I was growing up,
when I see someone gets angry on TV,
they punch a wall and they get through it.
In Libya, you can't do that.
You punch a wall,
that's it, you're dead.
It's like the cement block kind of...
Exactly.
There were a lot of fistles
in my house growing up,
and then there would be these dents
where you found a stud.
That's why people assumed
they were super angry.
You can't even punch a wall there.
You start a war, that's what you do.
When did you leave Libya?
I left Libya in 2014,
so I was 23 when I left.
You came straight to
LA?
No, Portland.
Initially, I came on
an exchange program.
It was supposed to be for six weeks.
This is nightmare fuel for me.
I'm going to use my eye statements.
I'm not going to say for white people.
This is nightmare fuel for me.
You were a special kid,
smart, bright.
I'm assuming I'm identifying
with you.
You're 14, you're in Benghazi.
People are probably coming up to you
and going, hey, you're funny.
Talk and talk,
and you become an exchange student.
While you're here,
here being America,
are you getting
texts or emails?
This is the story leading to your quest
for asylum.
Facebook messages
from family.
Saying.
When I moved here, I was 23.
The program was
six weeks. That's the whole program.
It was important to say university.
After the program was done,
I was supposed to go back to Libya.
That was the whole plan.
I didn't even pack enough for
staying a year or so.
Then I was getting messages from my family
and stuff.
To give you some background,
back home, when the war started,
the revolution, the Arab Spring,
they started in 2011.
The countries
were like, the Libyans
took down the government. There was no
government anymore.
Everything was
mixed up.
I used to work as an interpreter.
I used to take
journalists and stuff.
I used to take them to the front lines.
I was a kid.
I was 20 or so.
You had such a facility
already.
I don't want to derail us
from this asylum story.
That's a different fascinating story.
Your biopic.
I don't understand any polyglot.
I don't understand how anybody
speaks multiple languages.
But to be 20,
let's just go ahead and derail
and talk about that job.
It was never a job like,
this is what I want to do.
The war started out of nowhere.
It probably doesn't pay well.
It sounds like something that may
cause trouble.
I didn't get paid a single dollar for it.
But you scammed.
Someone came to you.
You scammed a little bit.
You scammed.
Scam is like a finder's thing.
You interpret for somebody
and then they tip you.
I was dumb enough to be like,
I'm doing this for my country.
Now I'm like, I should have got
money for this shit.
Take me to the moment
when...
Who is the harbinger
of this gig?
The moment
where you go from regular guy
with no troubles
to being an interpreter.
I used to work in a school
that thought English as a second language.
I approached that school.
Second?
Fuck the world.
I'm sorry, I don't know.
Second to Arabic.
Arabic is better.
It looks more beautiful.
When in Rome, I guess.
When in Libya.
Ron Funch has called me out on this habit I have.
I cast too wide a net.
I asked somebody a meaningful question
and then I fucking did it.
The questions are great. I love them.
The interjections.
It's about me.
You give me more time to think
and I appreciate that.
I approached that school.
Do you have people for us
that would be interested in doing that?
My manager approached me.
Would you like to do that?
What does manager mean?
You're a kid.
I'm the person who owned that school.
Your school had a manager?
No, it wasn't my school.
When I was 20,
I was teaching English.
I was an employee at that place.
You speak Arabic.
You learned English fluently at what age?
Like 7.
What else? You speak French?
No, English and Arabic.
You became a teacher teaching English
as a second language.
Your boss, the vice principal of the school,
I demoted him.
I was like, hey, would you like to do that?
I was like, yeah.
Who are these guys that are out front?
Your boss
is coming with a clip on time.
He's like, hey, Mohamed,
you get a real handle on that English, huh?
You're teaching it.
Are they asking you to work for the embassy?
That was before the embassy.
That was just like,
hey, we have these journalists
who are coming here to cover the revolution.
They're like everyone.
They're like, they're like,
we need someone to take them
to do some interpretation,
like the front lines and stuff.
So it sounds actually not even,
it sounds like you said,
do this for my country.
Exactly, I was like, yeah, I would love to help.
Because at the time,
there was a week when the revolution started,
there was no news coverage happening at all.
And no one outside of Libya knew
what happened.
How can more awareness be a bad thing?
Oh, I'm excited.
I want everyone outside to know what's happening.
And I want them to capture that
correctly.
Because we're going around the city asking people,
and people are not speaking English that well.
So they take whatever they assume
that they say they're just put down to the news.
You must have felt like Indiana Jones,
like you're finishing writing a hot dog
on the blackboard.
There's a girl blinking, I love you.
It's written, I love you, it's on her eyelids.
And then your boss goes like,
hey, I'm going to get in, guys.
Want to take you, and you're like, god damn it,
this is such a romantic, adventurous job.
Exactly, I was so excited at the time.
I was like, oh, I'll take them to the front lines.
That sounds exciting.
And I did that, we driven
for a while and we got in there.
And there was an area where they were like,
you can't go across this line
because this is where the actual
fighting is happening.
And journalists are like,
let's go across the line.
Yeah, so I take them and
there were some moments where
sometimes they're just like, oh, it's easy job.
They're asking soldiers and
then there's other
times where everyone
starts running and you have no idea
what you're running away from.
And you just keep going until
you just hide behind a car
or something. I don't know what's happening.
Yeah.
At that time where you like, there's good guys
and there's bad guys and I'm just like,
at the time there were like good guys and bad guys.
We knew who the bad guy was.
But in a year after that, it was just
like, bad guys everywhere.
And I'm like, maybe I'm a bad guy now.
You never know what was happening.
So who's in charge at this point?
There's a Magaria, how do you say that name?
Who's the...
The former president? Yeah, that was Gaddafi.
Oh, so this is during Gaddafi?
Yeah, during Gaddafi, it was like the revolution
against him and then he died like
10 months after.
It was like...
So how are you seen by the locals?
Are you seen as a conspirator?
Like with the West?
That started to happen after
a few years in because
I was still doing that job
and then that school I was working on
there was programs that were sponsored
by the US Embassy in Benghazi
and we had the
ambassador
Christopher Stevens
who used to come there all the time.
We were seen as
people who worked with the embassy
and I'm like a person who did that too.
So Gaddafi kind of put the spotlight on me.
Also I used to... Is it because of the bad guy
and forgive my ignorance, don't know anything
about that conflict or what the result was?
Is it the situation that then
after you went to be a foreign exchange student
that the bad guys...
that the guys you perceived as bad
let's call it... It became worse
after they came here.
Did they take power? They did take power.
You're over here
learning about quantum physics
or whatever.
I was learning about conflict resolution.
That takes us to this moment
where you're getting Facebook messages from
loved ones. I can't put myself
in this situation. I was getting text messages
from my mom and stuff and she's like
hey, someone
came by the house today and they were asking
for you and they came through your room
and took some of your stuff and whatever
they took my stuff and I was like
what did they take?
By the way, I should interject here for a second
because I take this for granted
this guy is incredibly funny.
He's a great comedian
and that's...
Even if you were a fireman
this would be an interesting story
but what's crazy about this
is that you still
at this stage of this story
you haven't yet thought about a career in comedy
and as of a couple years ago
you're like
legitimately like
Portland's like
people are excited about you
because you're that good at stand-up
but you weren't
you won't say it
but that's what's double ironic about it
is we have so much to talk about about comedy theory
and stuff but first of all to get through this thing
I haven't met somebody who's been in this situation
Absolutely, that definitely makes sense
They went to your house, they went to your room
and what were they looking for?
Your computer?
My computer was with me at the time
but they were trying to find stuff
that would like tie me to the embassy
because that happened after the embassy attack
and all of that
and also the thing is as a Libyan citizen
when you want to come to the US at the time
it's like a very very long process
because I was accepted in that program
I got my visa in like two days
or so it was like a very quick thing
because they've already done background check
and all of that
so this guy who we thought worked with the US
before
went so easily to the US
there's no way he's not working for the US
That's ironic
So they thought you were like special services
That's exactly what it is
That is incredibly ironic
They thought you were intelligence
or like secret service stuff
Yeah, exactly
I was like such a compliment
but also at the time
Wow, that's amazing
Okay, so you're getting these
I want to interject here though
emotionally and go like
because I feel this anxiety
even as a person who doesn't even
I don't know what your emotional connection is
to your family but you're getting
messages from back home that are saying
they're tossing your room
literally tossing your room
your bedroom
they're looking for
reasons to justify
making you an enemy of the state
while you're sitting over here
on a temporary lily pad
that is our government's job
to either
renew like a library
book or whatever
but what about your
family? Are they in danger
at that point?
Yeah, tossing your room
then they're shaking your grandma
They eventually had to leave the city
they left the house, they left the city
they moved to another city because
they were like, we can't deal with this city
So there's like a city that's more
Yeah, they wanted the capsule which is
triply they moved there
Because you're an intelligent interpreter
that has connections in America
Exactly, they were like
we have more family in that city
Is that because of the change of power
in Libya?
After Gaddafi died?
Yes, because there were a lot of
religious extremism
It became sort of a free-for-all
Yeah, exactly, because there was
the Libyan military and then you have
groups that were like
You had Wolf Blitzer's stink on you
Wolf Blitzer touched you as a baby bird
Exactly, and then
after the embassy attack happened and everything
it became even worse there
because these people were like
the embassy attack was a statement as if
we're in power, we can do whatever
the fuck we want so
these people were more and more in power
and
and then after I came here
getting all these messages and stuff
Did I feel terrified?
Did I feel bad?
Not really, because
I've had worse stuff happen
when I was there, so I was like
it was like a mental state where I was
in like no matter what happens
I'm like, okay, yeah, I guess there's
something we have to deal with
What's the worst stuff?
The worst stuff is just like
not twice before
the radio station I used to work for
because I used to host a radio show
like was burned down to the ground
because they were like not into
what we were saying or stuff
Why would you be shot out in your car?
Were you being targeted?
Yeah, I was getting a lot of death threats even when I was
being gutted at the time
How did people know you?
They had seen you walking around with
Yeah, absolutely, I mean like people get like
You're a voice of opposition
or were you even at all?
It wasn't an opposition, it was more of like
okay, so we have no government now
what's going to be like the face of the new country
and most of the opinions that
me and my co-host had
were too western as they described them
and when I say western
they were just like
yeah, we want to accept religion from government
like we want this and we want that
We should try that here
I keep having this like crazy
like this high-pitched tournament
like your family's safe
now in quotes
just so we can continue to talk about this
No, they're safe, they're good
which is focused on you, I just keep thinking of this family
they're like Facebooking you and going
yeah, they touched your room and like okay, so they relocated
and they're safe
because the story of you then
because I'm a narcissist so all I do
is put myself in your shoes and think about what if it was me
and then I just want to puke until I die
like going like
what? Everyone hate
like they're trying
so you apply for asylum
in the United States
and as the policy is
they go okay, we'll look into that
and how
describe that process?
yeah, so when you apply for an asylum
it's a very lengthy process
once you apply
first it's very expensive
to do so
if you want to
mark one wrong box
or something like that, that can affect the whole process
so they're like
you have to hire a lawyer
that's like three grand or something just to hire a lawyer
just to fill your papers and stuff
and like a person who's like new to this place
I'm like okay
I'm just gonna like toss like three grand to them
and then every time they're like
asking for more papers and everything costs
money and you have to pay fees and stuff
so you keep going
totally ignorant of this
is there a channel of
is asylum a legitimate channel
for people of means
because they can just afford it
maybe Harrison Ford doesn't have to stand in line at the DMV
with me
is there
or are rich people just, they don't need asylum
there's no way to cut
rich people
they start a business and get a green card
this is how they do it
and I wasn't a person who couldn't afford it
but I was in the middle
so I could afford the lawyer
afforded to do it the right way
and not make mistakes and that's it
so
when you talk about these steps
where you're going through where I'm like oh my god
my heart is skipping beats
every time you go through one of these cycles
there's countless
thousands of people who
had to give up at that point because
they had to find a lawyer
one reason people give up
and that makes sense to me is that
the first eight months after you apply for an asylum
you're not allowed to work
you can't have a legal job
so you just have to find ways to make money
that's such a funny thing to me
funny in the air quotes
like the idea of like oh wait
someone's going to kill you
I don't believe you
I think you're here to sell peanuts
if I catch you selling a single peanut
instead of fearing for your life
you have to have connections
and someone
you have to have some lifeline
to take care of you
it's like being a PA in Hollywood
it's like a simultaneous oppression
and privilege
where it's like you can't even
qualify to be mistreated unless your parents are rich
who is taking care of you family from back home
or what
I had to transfer all of the money I had
back home to the US
and kind of start spending that money
and then I had to get like under the table
jobs and stuff like work for a food cart
or like do this and that
to prove to our government that you're not here
to
fuck around like you're actually here
and you can survive
without a job
but you're not allowed to work
or you're proving that you're here to steal a job
this is the reason I believe they're doing that
it's mostly to be like
if you're serious about being here you'll find
ways because this is the American
dream is to struggle or whatever
because you know how everyone
is born here to have to do that
yeah
we just lied about our cotton expertise
and we got free rides
you paid no rent
yeah you got free meals
you should try it you know anything about tobacco
110 degree weather
happy february
I'm so excited
I'm doing black history for my workout
I'm learning about so many black history
and after 300 years you got your visa
that's right
oh my god and then in 1940
women got theirs
isn't that great
I don't want to get too political or anything
but it almost sounds
like what you're describing doesn't define
the word asylum
it sounds like the idea
the original idea behind that word
is like
it's almost like a believe the victim
thing
maybe I'll
book somebody that
works in some
office it's not going to be an ice agent
it's not going to be
maybe there's someone on the other side of the issue that can tell me
oh god if we open those floodgates
but I just have this weird sneaking suspicion that
there is absolutely not a zero sum
game going on here where if
everyone who came to your borders
said
I'm going to die
I'm scared I'm going to die or I'm already in your country
and I'm scared to go back home
if we said to all of those people
okay well alright
here you go rubber stamp
that what would happen
would be the destruction of America
I just choose to not believe that
see the thing is
if they put more
means and more money into the process
of making that a fast process
that will help
they do a lot of
background check and stuff
but in my case for example
you're worried about me maybe
being not a good person
I'm going to do this in this country
I hate for you to just shock up on a trailer
and make like eight kids and eat seven of them
so
although as a listener of true crime
I'd have to say
you're as welcome to do that as anybody
true equality
statistics bear out
but it's just so crazy to me because I'm like
okay so you're going to apply for an asylum
eight months no job
so maybe you can do it illegally
we don't know do your thing
and then you got to work permit
and then wait for four years
to have an interview so we can decide
based on the story that you tell us
if you're being honest or not
now in those four years I'm here
I could have plotted so many things
against the U.S.
if you think I'm a dangerous person
how many did you
I started a career in stand-up comedy
so that's one thing
that is a bit of a plot against the U.S.
I mean you're bumping a lot of J.Morris
you're going to destabilize the comedic industry
yeah exactly
people actually look
that's the question isn't that four years
are Americans actually looking
in your home country to see if anything's ever gone down
do they really spend that time well
after I did my
interview with the immigration officer
I realized they know nothing
and they were like you tell us everything
from the beginning it was three hours
and a half or just interview questions
and them being like so Libya
okay tell us more about that
I'm like what have you been doing for the past
four years that's a little bit of relief to me
as an interviewer I'm like
you know Libya you bomb that place
sorry
bombing doesn't mean knowing about
nope
I'm a child of the 80s
if you're
my parents paid for the bombing
I bet they can't point to it on a map
now you had a run in
recently and spoke in Washington
are you sick of talking about this story
no we can talk about it
it's a natural segue
that's the thing it's almost a shame
it's like
all this stuff
this struggle and stuff but it's also
if it were a strictly comedy
podcast and we were like hey
who's this new uprising comedy star
you're very funny
and it's incredibly
interesting the idea that you were this funny
given how recently
according to my hour of research
of you on Wikipedia
and I said to you in the green room
is that an exaggeration
it was like four years ago
somebody said to you in the height of this
like pressure where you're like
I was here in asylum
I was an interpreter and now I'm like
here's studying this and that and then it's like
oh shit
ticking clock I may have to go back
I don't know when and someone said
to you
you should try comedy
yeah it was in college
because I was taking a public
speaking class at the time
and then at the end of the term my public speaking
professor was like have you tried
comedy and I was like
yeah I know some open mics can show you
where to go and I was like yeah let's
do this and then at the end I was like
oh this is a good profession
yeah I can yell at people
on a mic that sounds cool
this is the point where if we could play a clip
if we were a TV show in the
90s or something
so that people could
rest assured
you're very graceful and funny on stage
you do these things and honestly
I was telling you in the green room
I watched your one set and I was like
I wanted to dig in with you about the minutia
of what you're doing
on stage because
I
I tried to do stand up from
17 to god knows when I really hung it up
but like it is an art
that it like
here you are English as a second language
and you're on stage and you
there's really specific things that you do
like where you let the audience
not do anything
you're doing a stand up set in Portland
and you have this bit that's like
where it's just like
it's very
resonant because you're like the T
up is just you talking about like gun rights
and that the setup is that you
so I tweeted like oh I don't
think that gun rights is that I can't remember the setup at all
but it's provocative enough
that I would never trust
an audience to not
fuck everything
up by reacting either positively
with applause or booing
or haram thing and you just let it
sit so patiently
yeah and then
it makes your punchline so funny because
it all it is is like the joke is like you go
you tweet this thing and it's like
a gun control
thing it's basically like I don't think
guns should be this or that or whatever
what's the joke yeah let's hear this
well if you don't feel
yeah I can I
professional no I can do it
I'm good I mean I know when people
tell when people tell me to do
my Sean Connery impression I'm like
no I can't do it because you asked
let's hear you Sean Connery most things
down here don't react well to bullets
okay all right well whatever but it's like
if you if you if you work
well under pressure I'll tell you the joke
yeah yeah yeah so
so yeah we
we live in such a weird time because a lot
of people have
opinions
you know and have you seen those
yeah they're there
and
especially about stuff like guns for example
because a lot of people have opinions
about that and mostly everyone is
wrong
and I as a comedian like every time a shooting
happen or something I have to go on social media
and I have to like tweet something clever
you know to like raise awareness
that I exist
and
last time a shooting happens I just went
and I tweeted and I wrote that we shouldn't be
sending thoughts and prayers and we should
be praying for more gun control
which to me sounded
like a very logical statement
to post on the internet
with the name mohaned
and I believed in everything I said
until that guy Kevin
replied to me
you guys know Kevin
yeah from social media
yeah he's there too
and Kevin replied to me this is what Kevin said
and I quote
you fucking Muslim
I eat bacon 24
which is quite impressive
I was like man I don't
eat bacon but I think that's super unhealthy
also probably
the worst argument
against gun control
just shouting your favorite food at me
yeah Kevin is dead now
it's that pause
that's the thing that I focus on is the
it's the pause
where you describe your tweet because I live
in the cynical world where
whatever I think of
Portland I don't even know
I was like I'm watching from Los Angeles
watching the YouTube clip of you
in front of 100 people in Portland
and I don't know what's going through
your head when you're willing
to go so I tweeted
thoughts and prayers
and a while
I've become so jaded
so cynical that
I'm like I would never ever
I gotta I can't
I can't let this rest happen because
someone will
fuck it up can you talk about that
did you vet that
silence?
I mean the silence exists there for a reason
because some of the jokes I do
people would do that
someone would jump in
or just say something stupid
and ruin the whole thing
but I've done it a few times to see
that silence makes it even better
and
I think it's mostly because of the way
I say it because I talk very slowly
and stuff
and I get the impression there's something else coming out
so people
on the edge to see what's gonna come next
so no one will interrupt the silence
and I think
the setup of someone else says it
it would be more like yeah
but when I say
I don't know where this is going
but I wanna hear it
that's gotta be like
that's so Portland
is there a place in the states
that you can do comedy in Arabic?
no
I would never do comedy in Arabic
have you ever tried Arabic?
I can tell stories in Arabic
but the structure of setup punchline
is such a foreign concept
to Arabic language that if you did it
people were like why are you quiet
why did you stop?
for real I never thought of that
is there any stand up culture
in Arabic?
there is in some countries
like Lebanon
if you go to
it's more getting more recognized
but everything I've seen was more storytelling
and I think it has to do with Arabic language
it's more like
you have to keep going
and it has to be
long stories
so you can't just do setup punchline
like pauses
like traditional
American style
setup punchline
absolutely because this is a way
I've learned how to talk in English that way
when I did it here
because when I speak in Arabic
I never talk this way
I talk way faster
when you speak Arabic
even when I'm telling a funny story in Arabic
it's always full of energy
and talking way faster
is it politically incorrect to go
even though we won't understand it
I just want to hear you tell a story really fast
in Arabic
is that a weird
bar joke
like a straight up joke joke
like a guy goes into a bar
and the bartender says whatever
well we don't have bars
it's already funny
like a proper
straight up
I'm trying to think
it was like a story I would say out loud
but I don't know maybe you can give me a few sentences
I can say them in Arabic
give me a joke
a guy goes into a doctor's office
and the doctor says
a guy
will be an interpreter
and he'll be
pretend I'm Arabic
even though I can't understand it
and translate his
because I have to go to the same speed as he
you want to click one?
a guy is getting his annual physical
and the doctor
looks at his chart and says
I'm afraid you're going to have to stop masturbating
the guy says why
the doctor says because I'm trying to give you a physical
what is
what is Ted Koppel saying
to me
I don't understand
tell that joke in Arabic
wait no
you were done
is that a notable thing
that there wasn't
a big fucking
this at the end
people can just follow with you
is that a culture thing
do you know the difference
between Dubai
and Abu Dhabi
absolutely
that's a joke
there are two different cities
tell me the joke
people
I'm surprised you don't know this
people from Dubai
do not like the Flintstones
but people from Abu Dhabi do
feels good
tell that in Arabic
don't
let me be the angel on your shoulder
I do want to ask though
because I'm fascinated with
it's a fucking good joke
it's a good joke
don't be defiant about it
it might be or it might not be
I hated that joke so much
welcome to Dubai
arguably
but the
polyglots
they make me feel ashamed
they're still laughing at my joke
the joke is still washing over him
he still loves it
I always want to know
this idea of
do you think in one language and translate it to another
you said something in the green room
I think I've heard it before
from other people that are bilingual
you said there was a transition
tell me
for the first few years here
I would speak in English but I would talk in Arabic
I always had that transition
when you tell me something
it goes into that fast process
from English to Arabic to Arabic to English
now I'm at the point
where I even have my dreams in English
I would be like I'm fully gentrified now
so it changes
that's the thing
when you learn a language
when you start dreaming in the other language
that means your brain has completely
absolutely and now it's very strange
because when I talk to my parents
and obviously we talk in Arabic
sometimes I find myself
being like
what's that word
who are you
do you think
is that uncomfortable to talk about
tell me stop at any time
but what is that relationship like
you are after all an astronaut
that came over
the asylum thing happened
you haven't been back since right?
emotionally
is there any
does that generate any conflict?
it's definitely hard
I do miss them a lot
it's very hard on them too
because
in living culture
you live as a family
together
you don't leave the house until you get married
there's no like oh he's going to college
now you leave
everyone lives together in a big house
there's family structure
so were you kind of starting to rewind
to your childhood then
were you a freak
were they like
what's up with Mahanad
he's like so weirdly verbal
or
just in comparison
of that
was there a departure
in your childhood
was there a point where
where there was this conversation
about
you're going to keep
talking because you're a talker
yeah
I mean
my parents
their thing with me
is they would always be like
hey do whatever you want
you can talk about whatever but can you tone it down
a bit
so resonant
sometimes my mom
I would be outside of the house and I post something on facebook
and she immediately calls me
I'm like delete this right now
did they speak english too or just you
what's that
did your family speak english as well
my siblings do none of my parents do
they kind of understand it
but they've never learned english
they made sure that me and my siblings
were learning english
since we were super young
but they don't really speak it that well
are you allowed to go back home right now
because that's part of the whole
asylum process and getting the green card
I cannot go back until I become a citizen
in a few years
because your whole case is built on the fact
that oh it's too dangerous for me to go back
so if you go back
you're kind of like oh have you been lying this whole time
on your asylum set
even if it gets better
you have to be a citizen
all the people coming from Venezuela and Central America
that are coming in and seeking asylum
the same thing for them too
but they don't have the resource for
lawyers and
they do not
and obviously the immigration
will give you a lawyer and that lawyer is handling 100 cases
so there's so many
and even with the lawyer
even with everything
the process is very vague
because
when I applied
they were like okay so when do I do my interview
and they were like
a few months a year, two years
and then it was four
so there was like no
you're just living in a limbo
okay do I start my life
and they're like where do I just have to wait
I don't know
well I
I finished like I did
the biggest step was getting your asylum approved
which I did in last October
which was great because it was such a relief
because I was like I'm doing comedy
and doing all of that but not knowing
if I'm like because if they declined it
it was just like it's like
okay well you either
have to pay more money and hire a lawyer again
and do all of that or you're welcome to leave
so there was that
so when it got approved I was like okay
okay this is good
so you're good to go now
well now yeah and next I told
but I get my green card which is great
so I can come and go out and travel
and like do all of that
and then in three years from now
I do become a citizen
but to make no mistake about it
and sorry if this is like insensitive
or whatever but this is just me
going like
I just
I'm putting myself in these shoes
like
so there are points in your life
and I don't know how long they are
and I don't know how extreme the walls of it are
but like you have to legitimately fear
the idea that you're going to get a letter
whether it's pink stationery
or a knock on the door
it's some bureaucratic thing
that's going to go
you get it now it didn't work
you're going back and you're going to be like
on an airplane
and you're on the airplane and not only
the airline travel is garbage
even if you're first class
these people hate me
and they love flaunting it with their sarcastic applause
but you're like legitimately
because I mean like
you have to atone
with a
death in your head
that someone would go
that you would
be sent back
and you would get to an airport
which everyone that's traveled knows
you're not in control of your life
because that's their airports
you can't just like jump off a plane
like Arnold Schwarzenegger and be like
I'm going to run through the swamp
like there's no
you come through a gate it's all controlled
and anyone that wants to
once you're in that country
please
unless you're uncomfortable talking
how high was that fear
of going back to a place
where people will put a black bag
over your head or am I being ignorant
or likely
that's sadly was the case too
yeah like do you like
how long do you live in fear of that happening
and how much do you currently fear that
now not as much
now and not because I have my asylum
approved and stuff so it's like illegal
to even like be like oh you get deported
unless you like
commit like a criminal
like huge like criminal offense or something
then you're like you're safe
but like yeah even like
the past few years
there was a fear like I would say from
to 2016
you know what I'm going
we're in dates, random dates I don't know why
you know what I'm going with that
and then until
okay I'm still like good and then
there was a change
in the office
yeah and then it became like
it went like from 40
to 100
but I'm sure you're
I'm sure that's a figment of your imagination
because I have I'm absolutely
positive that you have no real world
evidence that anything actually
changed from day to day
after all you were already in America
for all those years
and then that election happened
and you're a smart guy
and you're walking around with your papers
and you're funny and your Portland's finest
and you're just strutting your thing
and you got your asylum
and nothing can happen to you
that's what I show goodnight everybody
happy ending
can we take it to Spokane now
yeah let's do that
yeah exactly yeah so
I don't know does anybody know this story about what happened to him
it's pretty wild
yeah I'll tell you the story
most of these people are like what the fuck is Spokane
yeah
it's a trash place
like it's really bad
by the way do you want to drink
she don't lie she don't lie
she don't lie
Spokane
oh there's a song too
okay okay
when you're bored of shit
drown in your own spit
Spokane
hell yeah
no yeah
so yeah as you said
yeah I got my asylum approved
and then I was like oh everything is perfect right now
like this guy is untouchable
like he talked to me like you're on my paper
it's like getting 70 episodes
on your show
Dan stop making it about you
4chan can't stop me now
well
tap that hornest nest again
yeah very relatable
like yeah 70 episodes
yeah tell me more
never had an episode
that's my one talent I've been putting my heart to make everything about me
no no
you're uh
so yeah
no I
yeah no I recently got
like a college gig
it was in Pullman Washington
which is like Spokane what is that
like no one knows what that is
just a very small college town
and they're like hey you want to come perform
like an event I was like yeah sure
I'll come and do it
so I took the bus to get there
because it's like
by bus it was like 5 to 6 hours
because it was snowy so I'm not going to drive
I got there
I did my set on Saturday
it went really well
alright
don't look it up
it went great it was amazing
he's a good comic and also all college crowds
are a gimme
it was really bad
it was
you should really
did you bomb or did the audience
just not dig it
it was like so the crowd
was like mostly students and then I discovered
that most of them were like promised extra
credit if they attend
so I was talking to a crowd of people
who were looking at their phones and not even
looking at me and I did 10 minutes
of material like to like just
no one and they were like
it was like a full room too
and then I sat on the stage
and they just started interviewing people
like where are you from that's trash
just like an old man you know
and they just like started yelling at people and stuff
and they laughed a bit at that
and then yeah so I did my set
I got paid everything I was like okay yeah I'm going to leave this town
and they never got coming back
you get back on that safe ass bus
yeah I got on the bus
then we had to do a bus transfer
in Spokane so that was the reason I was there
I had to wait for three hours
then I get I get on the bus
the bus is here on time which is great
I get on the bus just sitting in the back
looking at my phone and stuff
and then these two people in uniform
like come in and they
just like start walking around and then like
but the bus stops are you back that up though
the bus stops somewhere specific
before these guys get on
no it was at the Greyhound station so we haven't left yet
he's transferred in Spokane
yeah exactly and it's like
I've never traveled by bus
God forbid
there's still time
it's like
if you're going an eight hour trip
do you tend to just sit there and it stops at Greyhound station
yeah and then you wait
you sit in the shitty station
but you don't get off the bus if you're just
shaking the whole trip
so first bus from
Portman to Spokane
and then left that bus
because that bus doesn't go all the way to Portman
it only goes to Spokane and then
waited in the station for three hours
and then the other bus came that was going to
Portland
so yeah just like I don't know flights
it was like a transit kind of thing
I just want to contextualize like
these guys getting on the bus
are they getting on the bus before a trip starts
before the trip started
so everyone sat
looking at
at random people and I can
vaguely hear what they were saying
and then they came to me and I was like
oh they're probably asking for IDs
they're trying to match your ID with your ticket
it's fine
because they're cracking down on the
bus ticket counterfeit ring
Greyhound
but seriously
in that moment
you think these guys work for Greyhound?
yes absolutely
so Greyhound
this is how it works
traveling by bus is amazing
why would Greyhound let
why would they not divert funding
into having what do they look like
describe them they look like
they were like big
they're like buff guys and they're just like
wearing uniforms and stuff
and they were like can we see an ID
and I was like here you go
this is my ID
are they skipping people?
they asked four people
to be specific
are you noticing
the people
they asked looked vaguely
ethnic
they're skipping over people
this person looks Hispanic
they asked me
I gave them my ID
I was like do you need my ticket
they were like are you
a US citizen
that's such a weird thing for them to ask
I was like no
I'm not and they were like
what's your country of citizenship
I was like Libya and they were like
come with us
and I was like
took you off the bus
I still had no idea who these people were
you hadn't identified themselves
they didn't say anything when they came
into the bus they said nothing
they took two people
and then the fourth person
they asked him if he was a citizen
and they were like prove it
he pulled his US passport
I was like that's very
weird
so all the other people passed
the check
is what you're saying
they looked at them and they passed
some of the people they have a proof of citizenship
they had like driver's licenses
exactly and they were like
that's cool
sometimes you can look at a person and they're like
I'm from Libya and I have a silo
and they're like
off the bus
we still haven't even mentioned the asylum part yet
because I got out they were like
do you have any other form of ID
I was like yes
I'm a comic book nerd
in panel 14 of issue 3
because I'm picturing these guys in a certain way
and I'm wondering
so if they're facing you
and you're on a bus
and then they're like you're coming off the bus
as they turn their back
following them do you not see
this logo on the back
is that or am I just
doesn't it say ice on the back
well here's the thing
I thought
they were like
CBB which was like
Border Patrol something
they're both under homeland security so they work
together
these two agents were from
that separate agency
which is I'll get to that part too
because that was like very interesting on the internet
but
so I got out with them and they were like
do you have any other proof of identification
I was like yeah I do have my work permit
it's still valid
it's issued by you guys
I just want to interject one thing because of social anxiety
and resonating with you
are you the only person they pulled off the bus
they pulled two other people
they were like interviewing separately
because they were like at least six
my anxiety starts mounting
meeting
everyone on the bus was there
that idea of like oh I'm
a bad person
and they're like the bus is now going
like come on
I'm trying to go to
I just wanted to give
a picture of like if it's just you
no absolutely yeah it was me and then
two other people who were on the side
and then they were like
I gave them my work permit like here you go
and at that point I was like
they work for immigration
immigration officers this is like what I can
see now
and then I gave them my card
and they looked at it and they were like
what's your status I was like
yeah I have an asylum approved this is my status
and then they were like do you have your asylum approval on you
and I was like
why would I have it on me that's such a weird thing
I was like it's three pages with a big card
and I was advised
by your office
not to carry it with me
I want asylum
exactly I was like this is
because it's mostly electronic
you can like look it up and then show it to them
and that's if you don't need to carry a paper with you
if you genuinely have asylum
you have a place to keep your asylum papers
exactly
if you're walking around with all your papers
just a file cabinet
just like walking around like everything
is here
so what happens next
so I gave it to them
and then I was like I don't have it
but I do have these papers
and they were like these can be easily falsified
I was like what
I was like this work permit is
fraud proof like you can't
you can't do that I was like since 2011
you guys updated it
and you can't change it anymore
I was like yeah I read your website
almost every day
and they love you now
they hated me so much
because you're verbal
they were like
they were like really not into me
because the reason they
target Greyhound bus is a very cheap bus
so most of the people who use it
are like
people like
a lot of people of color use it in the area
a lot of people who are like immigrants, Hispanic
and stuff they use it so they know
where to target they're not going to like
go on some fancy bus that's just like
wealthy white people inside of it
that would be inconvenient
so they're there to rumble you
because these are
ICE officers?
so CBB, yeah there are two organizations
that both of them work together
they basically do the same
job, yeah they're both
horrible
they think you falsified your papers
they give your stuff back right?
Cell not giving me my stuff back
they were like holding to them
you took your cell phone?
no they didn't take my cell phone
they had my papers
and I was like
they kept using the word
legal
and every sentence that comes out of my mouth
they were like yeah legal say that all the time
no matter what I say
that's probably very true
exactly
I say something and they're like yeah we've heard that before
I'm like what?
whatever
it feels in your story structure
get us every time
cause that second act
that made us let him go
looks like we got us a talker
we got a
hold your fucking horses T.S. Elliott
definitely look like an Elliott for sure
part of your story that I saw on twitter was
like
like the
point where you have spoken
your case
misunderstandings whatever
let's do an NPR segment
about what they're going through
and what they're profiling and whatever
I'd be shockingly sympathetic
to whatever the fuck is going on
but you have said
I have this, I have that
and they call it in
and you can hear
it was like a woman's voice on the other side
they were reading numbers out of my
work permit
status and stuff
and I can hear it on the phone
they were like okay so it's in the system
okay yeah
and then looked at me and was like yeah there's no records
of that
now what was that?
let's focus in on that
at that point I was like
really frustrated
throughout the whole thing
I was like being calm
cause I'm like you know what
this is inconvenient but once they make their calls
and they see that I'm like in the system
just take my papers and go
my mind races as a middle aged white guy
and an oppressor and all this stuff
and I go okay zoom in
if I figure out how to be this guy
and I go okay I don't like to admit
making a mistake
I'm embarrassed, I'm flustered
is that what that is?
it felt that way but also like
it felt like they're trying to break me at that point
they're like okay if we can't get you on that
we're gonna get you on something different
the story is that do you think that they thought
if they bluffed you would eventually go
okay I masterminded 9-11
or do you think
that they were like going
one doesn't just
get out of this valley with a ladder
one needs to create a beach
I honestly think it was like both
from what I read and stuff
they do that to people so they can break down
and just say they've done something
or whatever
and also that they're not gonna make it easy
they're like wanna leave you
with like
yeah don't fuck with us
have your everything on you next time
we're not to be played with
and I
they were talking to one another
but I didn't hear what they were saying
because they would whisper to one another
and I'm like okay whatever
and then
once they told me that I have no records
and I was like there's no way
I was like you know what
you've
I think what you're doing now is illegal
and if you don't give me my papers back
I need, I'm gonna call my lawyer
I'm gonna pursue legal action this is like getting too much
there you go
this is a terrifying threshold
and even at that like
very calmly because
how did that register in their eyes when you said that
oh I'm sure they loved it
immediately once I finished that sentence
the officer that hasn't spoken
the whole time started yelling at me
with my hands out of my pocket
wow
by the way what temperature is it
it was like freezing cold
and they were like wearing gloves and stuff
and the thing is like I had them in for 20 minutes
now you decided
you're hanging out there
you're both detonators are ready to go
exactly
at this point
no blasters
I mean for you to like
you're gonna actually put more effort
you say hey
what you're doing is illegal I'll lawyer up
and they now are treating you like you might have a weapon on you
exactly so I immediately
I have watched enough documentaries to know where this is going
and I took my hands out of my pocket
I'm like here on my hand I kept them out
and then for two minutes I said nothing
because at that point it was like no matter what I say
it's gonna be like
it's quicksand you move more and you go down more
yeah they were like looking at me and I'm just like
not even looking at them at this point I'm just like looking around and stuff
this is where I want to like focus in though
yeah like guy
46 year old white guy huge blind spot
doesn't know didn't know until tonight
that Benghazi is in Libya etc etc
all of this stuff like I
as a
not just as like a curiosity
shop thing but as a transfusion
of self-esteem I'm like
I want to know
at which point are you going like
like where are you at the nadir
of like
I'm fucked
like they got me like they caught me
doing anything wrong but like
the bullies one
I'm going back home
I was honestly like I had so many
scenarios playing in my head
I was like oh shit what if they
like take my phone
and then I have like no one
I was like no one in port like no one knows where I am
right now because I'm like I haven't
like I haven't like it was like
like very early in the morning I haven't posted anything
no one will know where I was taken from
also the worst is that they'd be like
we saw him bombing in this cafeteria and then
he disappeared
exactly I was like what if they took your phone
and you went you went through a brief
but adventurous phase
at the subreddit gone wild audio
alright so
all I'm saying is once you take a mother fucker's phone
Dan let them finish this
you want to prove they're a bad person
you
let's forget dance
let's forget dance here let's finish this
story now because this is compelling
shit we're not getting through this because
so you like take us to the end
and then I resent that I think that I'm providing
a pretty good you don't have to stick up for me
it's fine I
shut up Dan be quiet
I appreciate that
so the
the end of the story and then you get
into a Twitter warfare that goes on
so like take us to the end of that
no sorry no
I'm not trying to high road you but the story's not done
he's on the sidewalk he's freezing
take us to the end of the story and then get
like this is only act two basically of what's going on
absolutely yeah this is like not even where the story is
like this is like nothing
but if Dan would be quiet for five seconds
fuck you white man
just let him tell that
I gotta beef the squash excuse me for a second
shut up what fuck you shut the fuck up
all right go ahead just fucking talk now
now then and then I
yeah after like few minutes they gave me my
papers back after like a just
silence and then they were like
next time have your papers on you
and I was like well I don't know what that means
because I had my papers because it's fucking
Germany in 19 fucking
exactly exactly so I
I got on the bus
you if you have papers you can get away from white people
yeah yeah how much
you said three thousand dollars for these
papers all right
me undies and we are selling
those papers as well here on harm
and you are so selfish
all right
haunted
we can start a business
together yeah
all right so they give you
they give you a shit back you're free to go
but with a warning yeah with a warning
which is illegal no admittance
of absolutely zero
no matter how minor no admittance
not even a story no
got your wrong nothing nothing
let alone an apology nope nothing
but absolutely
they're like nothing we did this and we
were entitled to do it and we did it and
now get back on the bus they I mean like they
looked like
like if you look at their faces they've never said
the word sorry before like they
I don't know how to describe that like have you ever seen
someone like seeing someone's face
I'm like you look racist
that's how they looked
like seriously
do I look racist no
in a brief interjection
like I told you
don't flinch
that makes me look racist
Mahan is like
like you could be an actor
and play like any ethnicity
almost so you could play
you could play anything absolutely
I look like
a Caucasian like
Germanic dude I had
in my passport
a bunch of things
I visited
Saudi Arabia and Yemen and Dubai
and
UAE
no Abu Dhabi
Abu Dhabi do
I've been to Abu Dhabi
but I had a customs officer
and I look like
a very white American dude
and
they see Arabic in my passport
and the customs when I came back
into like LAX
the guy's like what the fuck is this
I go
I was in Saudi Arabia he goes why
I go they're one of our allies
and I was performing for the troops
what's your fucking next question
they like funded 9-11
yeah
so
okay
if you want your next 9-11 funded
you need to let me into this country now
see that was my mistake for interjecting
alright so
so now take us to the streets
where you get fucking online
and fucking get in trouble
yeah I was on the bus
I got on the bus first I texted
my girlfriend I texted like friends
they were like oh my god you can't believe what happened
right now this and this happened
and then I was like
no one on the bus was talking to me
like no one said anything positive
or negative which felt like
cause they all saw you get taken off and put back on
exactly yeah what about the other people just curious
it was you and like three people
some well I came on the bus
another person came on the bus and the third
person they took away with them so I have no idea
so somebody lost the lottery
and everyone witnessed it
it's sitting in a greyhound bus
and everyone was just happy
that we're finally moving
I mean like we see this
the united guy gets stunned baton
or somebody like chokes a dog
if you're sitting in these seats
it's very
very normalized it felt like
oh yeah we see this everyday who cares
one person was taken
but also when is the revolution supposed to start
you're socialized
to go like
my job is to sit here
and then people can come
well yeah if you hear people on the internet
and the responses to my thread
everyone was going to be the hero that day
I fucking hate all of the internet
yeah same
you'll know why
so the dust has settled
the wheels are rolling you're on your way to portland
so yeah because like no one was talking to me
I was like I have this thing
I guess I have to
tell people on social media so I wrote this
whole thread on twitter
and just like describe exactly
what I've told everyone like what happened
I read this thread it's fucking crazy man
yeah it was just like
so I wrote the whole thing posted a picture of
the agents who stopped me and everything
just to prove that this
thing actually happened
because I took a picture of them like when I was like
when I got on the bus they were taking a person
so I took like snap a few pictures of that
and like posted that on a tweet as well
and then
not an hour from that
thread just blew up
it was just like going viral
like everyone was just like retweeting the whole thing
it was just like getting like
okay 10k, 20k, 30k, 100k
okay I don't know what
and then out of nowhere getting dms and emails
from like news agency like everyone like
had you ever had anything like that go that big
like on your twitter before
I had a dumb tweet about Uber
that got half a million likes
and people were like why are you using Uber
yeah it was a joke about Uber
which is so funny
which is so funny because
every viral tweet that I write
has to do with transportation
that's my friend
it was funny the uber treats great
but
is there a feeling there
or is it like
like
that blowing up
that virality
is
I don't want to lead the witness
but this feeling
of like you're even
people that are on your side
are pushing you
because you became symbolic
and you're alone though
you're being retweeted
because
people that want
your experience
but
I don't know what to ask you about that
I'm just like doesn't the fucking
world suck
the internet
one of my questions is
when you sat back on the bus
after having that experience
what was your feeling but then
as those retweets
and viral things started coming in
I guess I'm leading you to say
actually that was worse
because that's when people started
sticking up for me
and that's when shit got abusive
yes that's very true
when I got on the bus I'm not going to be like
I was like on the verge of tears
I was like
just so upset and so mad
because this thing just happened
because it felt really dehumanizing
because like
in my brain I'm like
I'm doing all of these things
and I'm doing comedy and people like me and stuff
and then you have this one brief moment
when you're like is reminded that you're an other
and I'm like oh man
gotta tweet this because it's inherently comedic
otherwise what's my job
were you in trouble online
like didn't you get death threats and stuff like that
yeah I did and I think one of the reasons
it was like a lot of big names
just like retweeting it and then
I think the point where it got really big
when Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez
also retweeted it
and they wrote her thing
and I was like holy shit okay
did it panic you?
yeah I was like oh wow
okay this is some congress shit here
does that make you go like it's out of control
when it got to that point
I was like okay this is national right now
did you appreciate that
or did you wish
that didn't get that much traction
you might get in trouble
there are two parts of me
like one part was like as a person I was like
I don't need this
I wish that this didn't happen
this is inconvenient but also there was
the other part of me was like
I'm a person who is privileged enough to have a platform
I'm a person who is privileged enough to have
to speak English well and do all of these things
and this thing that happened to me
happens all the time
exactly and I'm like
if I don't speak I'm like
this is gonna be a story like it's gonna be thrown away
because a lot of people were like
surprised that this happens
they had no idea that it was happening before
the fact that
somebody I don't know
who put that into my eyeballs
someone said you have to read this thread
it might have been like Sarah Silverman
or whatever
someone said you have to read this thread
and I read the whole thing
and the thing that struck me
first and foremost is that
you have again an audience
a voice
and you get
a lot of eyeballs on your story
but this happens to people that don't have
any recourse or anything
and
the fact that you're from Libya
you're an asylum seeker
and you go through this arduous process
and yet you still
as an American
as far as
legally everything is concerned
you get to be
made to feel like the other
and that you get to feel like
you don't belong
what you absolutely fucking do
and then what about the people that
don't speak English and don't have any recourse
and don't have the $3,000
to get their shit together
absolutely
because I can't get over
that person who was taken away
because I'm like he was standing next to me
and I don't know if he had papers or not
it's the fact that he couldn't even speak
English that well so he was
being harassed
I don't think he even understood what they wanted
and it was like
holy shit this is like disgusting
and then when I wrote about it
people from Spokane was like this happens all the time
Greyhound is letting those people
both ICE and both CBB on the bus
all the time they're complicit
and they don't have to
because there has to be a warrant
for them to get on the bus
are there stories about some bus driver saying
no you gotta show me some fucking warrant
I think that happens sometimes too
there was two stories where I read
a bus driver show me the warrant
and then there was this other story
with this African American lady
who stood up she was a citizen
and when they came in
the bus they were like don't fucking give them your papers
it's your fourth amendment
right and all of this stuff and they got off the bus
so emotionally where does that
put you right now in terms of like
how do you feel
as a citizen
or your desire to be a citizen here
where does that put you oh it does not change my desire
by any means because like this is what they want
they want me to leave they want me to go away
and I'm not fucking doing that
and once you're a citizen
you have
you have a vote and you have everything
I
like here's the
thing that I want to gain from you
and it's all about me
is like because I
I am
clearly so fragile so narcissistic
so fucking like
like entitled
I'm not used to this idea
of people
not wanting me around
and I
these times we're living in
we're all connected and I just like
I want to get a self-esteem transfusion
from you because I don't
like I'm just this
pudgy fucking like
I'm like
well if you don't like me then I'm going to go away
and all this stuff and I'm like
what does it feel like so you get back
on the bus and then you're like
texting your girlfriend you're texting
people and you're like kind of pumped
I'm familiar with that chapter
of outrage and
like alienation
but what I've never been able to cope with
is that other chapter
where you tweet and you go
this just happened to me and people start saying
like fuck you
who the fuck are you
where the fucker is your name
in my fucking twitter timeline
I wish you would fucking
die
it's not as simple as asking you like
how do you cope with that because I've asked that
to a million people and they all go
just don't think about it
I'm not going to be lying
and be like oh that was easy to deal with
it's obviously something
it's definitely hurtful and
you kind of like I wish
that wasn't happening but
it doesn't make me personally
it doesn't make me feel sad that they were saying
this stuff about me it makes me
sad and there are some people who are
that vile and that horrible
I'm just like in some sense
I feel so bad for you
too that you
this is how you lead your life
I can't get there yeah
this has always been the thing is that
racism is not
it seems like it's an incredible accomplishment
to those who wish to practice it
they are so impressed
I'm a third degree racist
by their systemic racism
they think that this thing that they've built
is so awful
it sucks
but it is not very smart
it's not very efficient
it's not the best way to do anything
so the way that we who are oppressed
feel about it is like
it's a fucking mat
it goes by your ear it doesn't stop
your spirituality it certainly doesn't
stop you from rising up
it's just this inconvenience
racism is like
people taking the steps out of a set of
steps you know you're going to get
where you're going you just can't believe
a motherfucker would build like that
exactly
I can't believe these stairs
have to
go around this guy's guitar pool
we're friends with Paul Feig
Paul Feig has a new thing
with his
powder keg thing called break the room
you have a deal with him
let's talk about that
break the room initiative
we're writing a story that revolves
around my life
and my personal
color experience to being in
Portland
and it's kind of focusing
more of like
being a person of color like a refugee or an immigrant
in a place that is
hyper liberal
in a liberal bubble
that thinks is like the perfect utopia
and yet it's 90%
the show is going to be
kind of like an anti-Portlandia
kind of thing
this is what you don't see in Portlandia
look at all of these people
and like their experiences
and stuff because it's definitely
an experience that we mean
yes I do have my own struggle
and have my own stuff but also
a lot of people of color
who live in Portland they share the same experience
of just being
a place where it gets too liberal
that you're like silenced all the time
because you reminded
of like no this is great
like what do you mean this is not good
this is like the best way I can describe it
is like
that show the good place
where they think that they're in the good
place and everyone's like this is heaven
this is really great and then
at the ending like oh this is the bad place
this has been held this whole time
oh god spoilers
who cares
now
I guess they're giving seasons away
these days
you know in my day
you had to retain 90% of the
offices audience and you were fucking out
you were back to
continue
because Portland for all of its hyper-liberalism
is still like a very white
very kind of closet
it is a different type
of racism that you deal with
it's passive aggressive racism
that's what you deal with
you can feel like an outsider
in a very liberal community
and how does that daily play out
like what's the day to day
things that happen to you
where you are reminded that you're the other
it is sometimes
like when you're like trying to go by
your day and then someone has
to bring up something that they saw on the news
because like I wake up every day
like I surprise don't think
about what happening in Libya every day
it's just like I try not to think about it
because I'm like I left that place so I'm like
I'm proud to be from there
that should make you automatically America
yeah exactly
I don't give a fuck about these bastards
I haven't thought about Libya in 3 years
I'm American
and then you have those people
like
that come to you like oh my god
so I read this thing about Libya today
like this is must be so terrible
that's me
if I'm bartending where you drink
and I know you're from Libya
you're being Portland right now
but that's annoying
because it's like they're looking at you as an immigrant
exactly because there's like
two narratives for immigrants
I thought you were Italian when you came on stage
a lot of people think that
there's like two narratives when it comes to immigrants
you have the Republican side
where you're vilified every day
you suck, leave
and then you have liberals
which is mostly like no matter what you do
sometimes you want you to be the victim so bad
it doesn't let you rise
because you can't leave
because they want to make you feel like
you need that help all the time
and once you break through
I'm like I'm doing it
and they're like yeah but you're not a citizen
so good luck with that
if you're trying to run away from us
you don't need our help
we have to help you every step of the way
because you need us
it's just like this white savior kind of thing
and I'm like I don't need you
I can do this on my own
a word for us
we're socialized to feel that way
it's not easy
we're told that we're in charge of the world
we're in sixth grade
and then we're like turned out loose into this world
that we don't run
and they're like fuck you
and we're like okay
you're racist
it's very hard to be in charge
so sorry
I'm in charge of everything all the time
when I hate it
I created a Plymouth rock
that I couldn't lift
I want to help you Brandon
but you're not poor enough
yeah that is
I
that's one of the many things
that idea of
if you're a white American
and you encounter someone
that you perceive
as
extrinsic
in any way
whether it's by accent, complexion or whatever
the most liberal component
of the white American
I'm speaking for myself has this impulse
I'm going to be an engine
of understanding and connection
and the way I'm going to express that is
I'm going to ask you where are you from
and when you say Portland I'm going to go
no really where from
and that we're waking up into this world
where actually that's you
like fucking up and how would you like to
it's like a
I'm done talking
I'm going to ask you
go ahead Brandon
you take it
no
no you fucking take it baby
alright I'll make it quick
if I can do it
how is the conduit
getting here from the United States
will you help other people do this
now that you're here it's interesting
because you seem like you were an ambassador
will you be an ambassador for other Libyans
trying to get to the United States
are there organizations like that
how can we help
I mean now
it's very very tricky
because obviously
I do my best to help
I'm not involved in any bigger organization
or something but I'm willing to
there's so many organizations
important stuff that would reach out to me
to like what's the best way
to help and I'm always
can you shout them out
there's one organization called Airco
that does a lot of help
there's also Mercy Corps that
located in Portland they do a lot of work
with refugees and immigrants
those two organizations mostly do a lot of work
to help especially like once you're here
they kind of like
there are places that can be funded
because actually it occurs to me that we need to
update our
Airco is definitely a place that can be updated
how do you spell it
it's I-R-C-O
I-R-C-O
is anyone up there less drunk
and paying attention
I don't know
what's your favorite one
I would go with that for sure
because this helps people
and they also provide a lot of
immigrants
people who
have been through trauma
and stuff like that
they get you a doctor and stuff
to help you through that
so they definitely do a lot of work
did you just love that you learned shrink
did you just portland because
that was amenable to that
refugee process or
I didn't pick Portland for that
because the program I was on
they picked Portland State University
for the program so after the program
was done I was like well I'm in Portland now
and at least I know a few people
and right now just like
today Monday
are you still getting hate
are you still getting threatened
or did your status
in terms of your own comfort
or go up or down
or where are you at right now
now it's kind of like in the middle honestly
what do you do
Dan let me answer the question
it was answering a question
no it is in the middle because
it feels like some days it goes up
and I'm like oh everything is great
and then it's taken down
just to go back to your question about helping and stuff
the reason that sometimes it's taken down
because we're doing well and then
travel ban and Libya is on it
people can't come in the country
my family can't come visit
we're stuck in this situation
what do we do
and then some days it goes up
because some days some things happen
and we're like oh someone cared
someone did something like that
you kind of like
have more hope
and then something like this
ICE and CBB things happen
and you're like oh fuck this
this is I hate all of this
is there light at the end of that tunnel for you
do you see a place
where you go okay I'm full on
so nobody can fuck with me anymore
or is that just going to always be a thing
for you here it's always going to be a thing
as a person of color
you get a citizenship and what does that mean
like in the eyes
of some Americans
you're never going to be a true American
because you're just
different you have an accent
you're a person of color you're black
you're just like
you're never them
and you can have an HBO special
and you can still be the other
you can still be the other
and to bring it back to where we at
the whole beginning with this thing
with that rapper 21 Savage
this is a person
who has contributed so much
to the community
is super famous
and then has the thing happened to them
and last night at the Grammys
they even mentioned them
and it was a Swedish producer
I'm like what about all of these people
this guy is nominated
and he's not there and not a single person
would talk about like
because they don't want to make it political
while someone is just wearing build-a-wall
thing on the red carpet
they weren't really concerned with him
until he started doing children's programs
in Atlanta
so that's one of the reasons we're super pissed
it's not just
really a guy who came to the United States
made money in the United States
and then gave back in ways that citizens don't
you see the government part of it
and then you see the citizens part of it
how does this person move
from there to
having
nobody is just being like
he only stayed his visa
what do you know about immigration laws
also what have you contributed to this country
if we want to take it by contribution
most of the people will be gone
you've done nothing
we all need to be more easily triggered by that shit
I mean not to be corny but that old
poem about like first they came for so and so
and then they came for a lot of a lot
and it's like that's my narcissistic nightmare
there is a path from narcissism
to patriotism
to
actually defending
the fucking line where it's like
actually I don't want to be
the guy that is responsible
I don't want to be standing
on my front porch
having everything up to me
please make this easy on me
please provide me with a country
that understands this shit so I don't have to deal with it
you can be lazy
and stupid and selfish
you can even be a little bit racist
my grandfather was
17 years old
and you gotta
there's absolutely no way that the reason he
lied about his age to go off
and bayonet people in World War II
was because he
hated
racism
he hated fascism
he hated the idea
that
being my grandpa wouldn't be up to him one day
he was selfish enough
narcissistic enough
even misogynistic and sexist enough
to take up a bayonet and go actually
finally there's a bad guy I can identify with
and like
fuck god damn it Harmon
you're drunk and you've started
your shit
anyways how are you
you have Pisces
I'm actually a Pisces
have a nap
one thing I wanted to ask you
which may put you on the spot
after all of this
you're a person that has no experience
that is parallel to mine
and I'm curious
because meanwhile
I'm like
there's absolutely no
synchronicity between our like
rhythms of like
sometimes you're popping a locket
and I'm kind of like
I'm almost twice your age
and I'm wondering
what is your feeling about
the construct called America
you can decline
to answer that question
I can answer it
the concept on paper
is great
this is the perfect nation
but then in practice
most of the things that this country
preaches is not practice
it's mostly practice in like other countries
for some reason they're doing it well
they're taking those American ideals
and the American dream
and they're doing it across the world
which is not necessarily a huge irony
I heard this
NPR special that I was like
hammering on
I don't even understand what
I guess I'll listen back
and I'll find out why
yeah you do
I can't wait to
I mean what is the problem
okay
go ahead
will you mark this and you'll listen to this point
I mean I'm paying attention
I want to mark this point so you're listening right now
as a sober person and you're listening to the podcast
correct
because you're listening to it
and our guest who is interesting talk
you keep interrupting him
while he's giving interesting answers
because you want to talk about your own narcissism
and you're fucking blowing it
you're making it a giant bummer
like this guy's fucking fascinating
and you don't let him get free words without wanting to talk about yourself again
okay well
okay go on
go on
my opinion is that
that is technically accurate
but an exaggeration
thank you so much everybody
for coming to Harmontown tonight
give it up for Brandon Johnson
we miss you Stinson we'll see you next time
I know I don't
I don't really get it
give it up for
Mohandlowski
fantastic man
I'm Jeff Davis your controller
Jen Harmon your mayor
why do you come here
why do you do this show
what do you do with
everything went great
we could have heard more from our guest
that's all right
try fast and take chances thank you everybody
did you get any of that
it's a good show